All right, what we want to do here
is revisit how we are loading our Bootstrap data.
Right now, prior to this video,
everything was going to be loaded through that Bootstrap.
Running it, we have a unintended side effect.
The recipes in the...
in the Bootstrap class keep getting reloaded,
and that's definitely an effect that we do not want.
So we want to initialize that database
with a lot of test data for our own use,
but we don't want to do that in MySQL
where that database is going to be persistent.
We'll keep inserting data overtime,
so I'm going to show you a couple different tools
here that we can use.
Now, the one thing that we want to do
is set the datasource platform.
I've added in a new application-default.properties.
Just as a reminder,
the profile default is active
when there is no other profiles available.
The way we've configure our application
is MySQL gets activated when we set
a dev profile or a prod profile.
If we don't set a profile,
then the H2 database kicks in
and now I've added in an application-default.properties.
Going back to the properties here,
showing you how we can mix and match
properties and yml files.
In this case, I'm setting the datasource.platform to h2.
Now, I've gone in and modified the yml configuration for
the MySQL profiles to have a platform of mysql.
You can see I'm also doing mysql here for the prod.
This is important to set,
and it kind of threw me off at first
because the Spring documentation talks about setting
the datasource platform and I thought it was implied
based on this setting here.
It's something that's easily confused.
It did throw me for a loop at first,
when I first started playing with this feature.
I did make a mistake thinking that
it was getting set by this
or a bit getting implied by the database,
but it's actually the spring.datasource.platform
that is getting used.
Now, the platform value.
Remember, we were using Hibernate
to do the inserts, SQL file.
Actually, this is through Spring Boot.
If we do dash datasource,
the datasource.platform,
if we do that dash value,
now this will get picked up for the H2 databases,
and I could create a data-mysql.sql
and have inserts for the MySQL platform,
but that's a behavior that I do not want.
I'm also configuring our Bootstrap classes here.
Now we are changing this original Bootstrap class
to be active with the default profile.
Again, that's going to be going with the H2 database.
But obviously, we don't want to initialize all this data
in MySQL every time.
I created another one here,
but this time I'm using Profile "dev" and "prod",
so if either one of those are active,
this component will get wired in
and listen for the context startup.
What I'm doing here
is I want to initialize some of this reference data
so the categories and UOMs,
the unit of measures.
I want to initialize those if they are missing.
This is something pretty common to do
where you can set up some default properties
in an application.
Let me show you how this runs altogether.
I come up here.
Let's delete this.
I'm going to run with the "no profiles active"
which will enable the default profile.
I'm going to start it up now.
We can see...
Nope, we didn't get our inserts.
Actually, here we go.
The SQL logging wasn't enable for some reason,
but we are loading the Bootstrap data
so it comes out of the recipe Bootstrap.
We can see here that that's that log message.
We did go through
our Bootstrap class with the default profiles,
so now let's go ahead and stop this.
I want to show you the database.
Now, let's take a look at this.
Here's my dev database.
I have unit of measures,
and let's go ahead and delete these.
I'm going to go ahead and delete those rows so that
we don't have any unit measures, but we'll have categories.
We'll leave those there, alive.
Now, let's come back over to IntelliJ.
We'll stop Spring Boot.
Oh, did I already stop it?
Yup.
Now, we can come in Edit Configurations
and I want to set the dev profile active.
Apply, OK.
Now, let's run the application.
Now we can see that we did a select count from category
and a select count from unit of measure.
That unit of measure came back to zero,
so we loaded up the unit of measure.
Now let's take a quick look here.
Now we have unit of measure,
and those rows are now back in there.
We can see that the ID value
has been incrementing because I deleted it,
and we're using the auto-increment field in MySQL
so that they'll keep going up.
We can also see that we did not load any recipe data.
All that is still blank,
but our reference data for the unit of measure
has been loaded properly.
Just to recap here again,
we can set up data.
I'm showing you several techniques here,
so we can set up a data-
and then the datasource name.
I mean datasource.platform.
Sorry to be causing confusion there.
These terminologies are really close,
but it is spring.datasource.platform
that is going to be working with the data-h2.
We're controlling the rest of it with active profiles.
These are a couple important things and actually,
let's go here.
I want to enable show-sql, so that Spring...
So in the default, let's go ahead and add that.
The default is false.
Let's go ahead and change that to true.
I'm going to stop this here and rerun it with the h2
because I'm editing in the default profiles.
We'll Edit Configurations, let's go ahead and remove dev.
Apply, OK.
Now with the H2 database,
we should be getting the SQL output.
Now we can see we have a lot more insert activity.
This is something I like to leave on,
generally in my development environments
so you can keep an eye on what's going on with Hibernate
because Hibernate will do some weird things sometimes,
but now I can see exactly the SQL statements
are being issued against the database.
You can see the question marks here,
and those are bind parameters.
You'll need to enable some additional debug
logging if you want to get those bind parameters,
but this does show you what's happening
inside of Hibernate in the database.
Pretty handy to keep with you
or keep enabled while you're in development,
just to keep an eye on what Hibernate is doing.
It's very, very easy when you're working with Hibernate
to accidentally create a n+1 query where you're
issuing a select for a rerecord in a set.
It's definitely a behavior you do not want.
I've seen a lot of times where Hibernate
just gets misconfigured a little bit,
and it's doing these n+1 queries
and it just kills your performance.
So that is a little pro tip that I have for you.